NOTICE: This opinion is subject to modification resulting from motions for reconsideration under Supreme Court
Rule 27, the Court’s reconsideration, and editorial revisions by the Reporter of Decisions. The version of the
opinion published in the Advance Sheets for the Georgia Reports, designated as the “Final Copy,” will replace any
prior version on the Court’s website and docket. A bound volume of the Georgia Reports will contain the final and
official text of the opinion.

In the Supreme Court of Georgia



                                                   Decided: May 9, 2024


                  S24A0599. COBB COUNTY v. FLOAM et al.


        PETERSON, Presiding Justice.

       “Courts are not vehicles for engaging in merely academic

debates or deciding purely theoretical questions. We ‘say what the

law is’ only as needed to resolve an actual controversy.” Sons of

Confederate Veterans v. Henry County Bd. of Commissioners, 
315

Ga. 39
, 39 (
880 SE2d 168
) (2022) (“SCV”). This case presents an

actual controversy; the Cobb County Commission has asserted an

unprecedented power to change acts of the General Assembly, and

members of the Cobb community have made serious arguments that

the County’s action was unconstitutional. But we are not empowered

to decide those arguments merely because an actual controversy

exists; the plaintiffs before us must also seek relief of the right kind.

And the relief sought here is not relief that the plaintiffs can receive
 even if they are right about the unconstitutionality of the County’s

action. Accordingly, their claim must be dismissed.

       David and Catherine Floam sought a declaratory judgment

that    the   Cobb   County        Board     of    Commissioners   acted

unconstitutionally   when     it    passed        an   amendment   (“BOC

Amendment”) changing commission district boundaries that had

been enacted by the General Assembly in 2022. The trial court ruled

for the Floams, concluding that the BOC Amendment exceeded the

County’s Home Rule powers under Article IX, Section II, Paragraph

I of the Georgia Constitution (the “Home Rule Paragraph”). Cobb

County appeals, arguing three grounds for reversal: (1) the Floams

lacked constitutional standing because they did not allege an

individualized injury; (2) the Floams could not pursue declaratory

relief because they did not show they faced uncertainty as to their

future conduct; and (3) the trial court erred on the merits in

concluding that the BOC Amendment was barred by provisions of

the Home Rule Paragraph. We conclude that although the Floams

had constitutional standing, they did not show any uncertainty as

                                     2
 to their future conduct that warranted declaratory relief. Therefore,

the trial court erred in granting such relief, and we reverse. We do

not reach the merits of the constitutional arguments.

      The record shows the following. 1 In early 2022, the General

Assembly passed, and the Governor signed, Act 562, which revised

district boundaries for Cobb County commission districts. Act 562

was supported by less than a majority of the County’s legislative

delegation and departed from the usual “local courtesy” tradition in

which a majority of a county’s legislative delegation determines

which local redistricting maps are enacted through local legislation.

Unhappy with this, the Cobb County Board of Commissioners

(“BOC”) in October 2022 passed the BOC Amendment to amend Act

562 and create new maps identical to those unsuccessfully proposed

by the majority legislative delegation. The BOC Amendment




      1 Although this case comes before us on a grant of summary judgment to

the Floams, the parties do not dispute the relevant facts. Compare Cowart v.
Widener, 
287 Ga. 622
, 623 (1) (a) (
697 SE2d 779
) (2010) (“In our de novo review
of the grant of a motion for summary judgment, we must view the evidence,
and all reasonable inferences drawn therefrom, in the light most favorable to
the nonmovant.” (citation and punctuation omitted)).
                                      3
 provided that it was effective January 1, 2023, so the November

2022 elections were conducted using the General Assembly’s maps.

     In the summer of 2023, David and Catherine Floam joined an

existing lawsuit seeking declaratory relief against Cobb County.2

They sought a declaratory judgment that the BOC Amendment was

unconstitutional under the Home Rule Paragraph and that Act 562

as passed by the General Assembly is legal and binding; they also

sought an order declaring that, until the validity of the BOC

Amendment was determined, the County must not hold any

elections using the County Map and that the County should compel

the Board of Elections to act accordingly. In their complaint, the

Floams alleged that the General Assembly’s map placed them in

District 1, they voted in that district in the November 2022 general

elections, and the BOC Amendment placed them in District 3. The

Floams argued that the BOC Amendment affected them in the

following ways: their commissioner is different from the one they


     2 The lawsuit was initially filed by Cobb County Commissioner Keli
Gambrill, the trial court dismissed her claims for lack of standing, and she
ultimately did not appeal that dismissal.
                                     4
 voted for; their legal districts are unknown to them; they have voted

and intended to vote in future elections; they have an interest in

voting in a legal district; and they have an interest in having the

laws of this State properly executed and the public duty in question

enforced. The Floams alleged that the County had a public duty to

follow the rule of law and to enforce and implement a legal district

map so the Cobb County Board of Elections could conduct a lawful

election, and that voters had a public right to “free and fair elections”

and a public right to vote in an election based on “lawfully created

and lawfully implemented district maps.”

     The County filed a motion to dismiss, arguing, among other

things, that the Floams lacked standing. The trial court denied the

motion, concluding that the Floams had standing because they

alleged an individualized injury flowing from the constitutionality

of the BOC Amendment. The trial court concluded that because the

BOC Amendment changed the Floams’ district after they voted in

another one, “if the [BOC Amendment] is determined to be

unconstitutional, . . . then the Floams have identified a harm that is

                                   5
 concrete, actual and particular to them.” The court also concluded

that the lawsuit was consistent with the purpose of a declaratory

judgment, because “the Floams’ suit seeks relief from the

uncertainty and insecurity of their voting rights and voter status in

light of the disputed districts.”

     The trial court later granted the Floams’ motion for summary

judgment and denied the County’s cross-motion for summary

judgment. At issue in this appeal, the parties disputed whether the

BOC Amendment was within the County’s authority under the

Home Rule Paragraph.

     The trial court concluded that Cobb County’s BOC Amendment

was barred by two exceptions to the Home Rule Paragraph and was,

therefore, an unconstitutional exercise of authority under the

County’s constitutional Home Rule powers.

     The County appealed. In response, the Floams filed motions to

expedite the appeal and to lift the supersedeas stay imposed by

OCGA § 5-6-46 (a). The County opposed both motions. We granted

the Floams’ motion to expedite the appeal but held in abeyance their

                                    6
 motion to lift the stay. We held oral arguments on April 17, 2024.

     1. On appeal, the County argues that the Floams do not have

constitutional standing to challenge the constitutionality of the BOC

Amendment      because    they   were    required   to   establish   an

individualized injury. The County argues that their claims are based

only on generalized grievances and not on particularized harms. We

disagree; to challenge county legislative action, the Floams needed

only to establish standing as community stakeholders interested in

their local government following the law, and they have done that.

     Standing is a jurisdictional prerequisite necessary to invoke a

court’s judicial power under the Georgia Constitution. See Ga.

Const. of 1983, Art. VI, Sec. I, Par. I. (“Judicial Power Paragraph”);

SCV, 315 Ga. at 44-45 (2) (a). As we recently explained in SCV, it

has long been the law that “[w]here a public duty is at stake, a

plaintiff’s membership in the community provides the necessary

standing to bring a cause of action to ensure a local government

follows the law.” Id. at 61 (2) (c) (iii). We arrived at that conclusion

based on precedent showing that for nearly 100 years prior to the

                                   7
 adoption of the 1983 Georgia Constitution, Georgia had allowed

citizen, taxpayer, resident, or voter suits to challenge various county

and city actions without demonstrating a particularized injury

because those community stakeholders had a cognizable interest in

having their government follow the law. See id. at 53-61 (2) (c)

(collecting cases).

     The County argues that this standing rule does not apply

because the Floams are challenging the constitutionality of the BOC

Amendment. In support, the County relies on long-standing

precedent that, in order to challenge the constitutionality of state

statutes, the Georgia Constitution requires a more particularized

injury similar to the federal Article III injury-in-fact requirement.

See SCV, 315 Ga. at 54 (2) (c) n.13 (citing cases). This Court early

on recognized that our judicial review was sometimes precluded in

a way that is akin to the Article III injury-in-fact requirement. We

first held in 1884 that

     [c]omity to a co-ordinate department of the government
     requires, according to many decisions of this and other
     courts, that causes shall not be disposed of upon

                                  8
      constitutional grounds when it is possible to avoid such
     questions, without a sacrifice of the rights of parties[.]

Bd. of Ed. of Glynn County v. Mayor of Brunswick, 
72 Ga. 353
, 354-

355 (1) (1884) (involving challenge to state legislation that created

board of education and changed funding procedure). Two years later,

we again emphasized that separation of powers precluded our

review of a challenge to a state statute regarding a liquor law,

concluding that it is only when “the law operates upon the private

property of an individual, and that is seized or destroyed or

confiscated, or the individual is arrested and indicted thereunder for

its violation” can the “portion of the law thus affecting his private

property and personal liberty . . . be assailed by him as

unconstitutional or illegal[.]” Scoville v. Calhoun, 
76 Ga. 263
, 269

(1886). It soon became well settled that a court “will not listen to an

objection made to the constitutionality of an act by a party whose

rights it does not affect, and who has, therefore, no interest in

defeating it.” Reid v. Mayor, Etc. of Eatonton, 
80 Ga. 755
, 757 (
6 SE

602
) (1888). These cases show the particularized injury requirement


                                  9
 for challenges to state statutes has long been rooted in principles of

separation of powers. See Ga. Const. of 1983, Art. I, Sec. II, Par. III

(“The legislative, judicial, and executive powers shall forever remain

separate and distinct; and no person discharging the duties of one

shall at the same time exercise the functions of either of the others

except as herein provided.”).

     But a county commission is not a part of State government,

much less a branch co-equal with the State’s judicial branch. For

that matter, the constitutional separation of powers principle does

not even apply to counties or municipalities. See Bldg. Auth. of

Fulton County v. State of Ga., 
253 Ga. 242
, 247 (5) (
321 SE2d 97
)

(1984) (adhering to cases decided prior to adoption of 1983

Constitution that held “that the constitutional provision applies only

to the state” and concluding that just as the Separation of Powers

Provision did not apply to municipalities, it also did not apply to

county governments because “a county commission is both the

executive and legislative branch”). Consequently, the animating

reason to require a particularized injury to challenge state

                                  10
 legislative actions is not present for challenges to county or

municipality legislative actions.

      Cobb County correctly argues that there is recent case law

from this Court seemingly imposing a particularized injury

requirement for challenges to county ordinances. But a closer review

of those cases shows that they are analytically unsound and cannot

be squared with SCV. Even so, in only one case did our holding align

with the County’s argument, and we overrule that case today.

     First, some of those cases uncritically imported without

analysis the particularized injury required to challenge state

actions. See, e.g., Manlove v. Unified Govt. of Athens-Clarke County,

285 Ga. 637
, 638 (
680 SE2d 405
) (2009) (in evaluating challenge to

county noise ordinance, citing Feminist Women’s Health Ctr. v.

Burgess, 
282 Ga. 433
 (
651 SE2d 36
) (2007), which involved a

constitutional challenge to state regulations governing Georgia’s

Medicaid program). But, as discussed above, the reason for requiring

a particularized injury for state actions does not carry over to local

governments.

                                    11
       Other cases imposing the particularized injury requirement to

county ordinances did so on the basis of federal standing

jurisprudence. See, e.g., Polo Golf & Country Club Homeowners

Assn. v. Cunard, 
306 Ga. 788
, 791 (1) (b) (
833 SE2d 505
) (2019)

(citing case law that cited United Supreme Court precedent and

holding that the plaintiffs had standing to pursue declaratory relief

against enforcement of county’s stormwater ordinance where the

“threat of an injury in fact” was “actual and imminent, not

conjectural or hypothetical”);3 Granite State Outdoor Advert., Inc. v.

City of Roswell, 
283 Ga. 417
, 418 (1) (
658 SE2d 587
) (2008) (applying

federal standing jurisprudence to challenge of city sign ordinance);4



      3 Polo Golf cited Women’s Surgical Center v. Berry, 
302 Ga. 349
 (
806

SE2d 606
) (2017), which in addition to directly citing United States Supreme
Court precedent on standing, also contained a “see also” citation to
GeorgiaCarry.Org v. Atlanta Botanical Garden, 
299 Ga. 26
 (
785 SE2d 874
)
(2016), but that case addressed whether a plaintiff could pursue declaratory
relief (i.e., had statutory standing), not whether a plaintiff had standing under
the Georgia Constitution. See GeorgiaCarry.Org, 
299 Ga. at 28-31
 (1).
       4 Granite State cited Bo Fancy Productions v. Rabun County Bd. Of

Commrs., 
267 Ga. 341
, 344-345 (
478 SE2d 373
) (1996), as showing that
“Georgia jurisprudence” was consistent with the federal case law cited in
Granite State. See Granite State, 283 Ga. at 420 (1). It is unsurprising that Bo
Fancy was consistent with federal case law because (1) it involved an
appellant’s attempt to block a county’s enforcement of a state statute, which

                                       12
 see also Grady v. Unified Govt. of Athens-Clarke County, 
289 Ga.

726
, 727 (1) n.1 (
715 SE2d 148
) (2011) (relying on Granite State and

case law that relied on Granite State to conclude that appellant had

“unquestioned standing to lodge a facial challenge to the provision

of the [county] ordinance under which he was convicted, as he clearly

suffered an ‘injury in fact’ when he was penalized”). None of these

cases considered standing under the Georgia Constitution, and they

were wrong to rely on federal standing jurisprudence to consider

challenges to county ordinances, because “federal standing doctrine

does not control” the nature of the state judicial power. See SCV, 315

Ga. at 46 (2) (a).

      Moreover, these cases all post-date the adoption of the 1983

Constitution. As described above and discussed more fully in SCV,


requires a particularized injury, and (2) it was a challenge based on First
Amendment grounds. Bo Fancy, 
267 Ga. at 344-345
 (2) (a). Neither Bo Fancy,
nor the case cited therein (Stewart v. Davidson, 
218 Ga. 760
, 764 (1) (
130 SE2d
822
) (1963)), is relevant here because neither involved constitutional
challenges to county legislation. See Bo Fancy, 
267 Ga. at 344-345
 (2) (a).
      Moreover, Granite State was the only one of these cases to conclude that
standing was lacking; the others all either failed to address standing or found
standing was present, and so have little precedential force on this point. And
there was no indication in Granite State that the plaintiff would have cleared
SCV’s community stakeholder standing threshold, either.
                                      13
 the Judicial Power Paragraph had a fixed meaning based on

consistent and definitive precedent that allowed community

stakeholders to sue to challenge county action. The cases post-dating

the 1983 Constitution cannot change the meaning of the Judicial

Power Paragraph. See Olevik v. State, 
302 Ga. 228
, 235 (2) (c) (i) (
806

SE2d 505
) (2017) (“[T]here are few principles of Georgia law more

venerable than the fundamental principle that a constitutional

provision means today what it meant at the time that it was

enacted.”).5


      5 Because Granite State is the only case that held that the plaintiffs

lacked a particularized injury to challenge a county ordinance, it is the only
case we need consider whether to overrule. Under the doctrine of stare decisis,
we consider whether to retain incorrect precedent by balancing “the
importance of having the question decided against the importance of having it
decided right.” State v. Burns, 
306 Ga. 117
, 123 (2) (
829 SE2d 367
) (2019)
(citation and punctuation omitted; emphasis in original). In making this
determination, we often consider, among other things, “the age of precedent,
the reliance interests at stake, the workability of the decision, and, most
importantly, the soundness of its reasoning.” Olevik, 
302 Ga. at 244-245
 (2) (c)
(citation and punctuation omitted). Also relevant is the extent to which the
decision was the result of actual legal reasoning. See Johnson v. State, 
315 Ga.
876
, 887-888 (
885 SE2d 725
) (2023) (stare decisis did not require retaining a
decision that was “unreasoned (bordering on accidental)” and “in conflict with
our own decisions”); Ammons v. State, 
315 Ga. 149
, 171-172 (1) (
880 SE2d 544
)
(2022) (Pinson, J., concurring) (“If the past decision in question is unreasoned,
or if it disregards the basic legal principles that courts use to do law, the
argument for overruling is easier to make.”).

                                       14
       Here, the Floams’ standing is firmly established. Because the

Floams are residents of Cobb County, they are community

stakeholders in that government. As we made clear in SCV,

community stakeholders have standing to enforce a public duty.

SCV, 315 Ga. at 60 (2) (c) (iii). The entire dispute in this case is about




       We have already explained that Granite State did not offer any reasoning
for importing the particularized injury requirement applicable to challenges to
statutes. And we have typically applied stare decisis with less force to
constitutional decisions, meaning that there is “less room . . . for the other
factors to preserve [incorrect precedent].” Olevik, 302 Ga. at 245 (2) (c) (iv).
None of the remaining factors support retaining Granite State’s rule. It was
decided 16 years ago, and we have overruled decisions much older than that.
See, e.g., Southall v. State, 
300 Ga. 462
, 468 (1) (
796 SE2d 261
) (2017)
(overruling 45-year-old precedent); State v. Hudson, 
293 Ga. 656
, 661-662 (
748
SE2d 910
) (2013) (overruling 38-year-old precedent). There are no reliance
interests at stake, and Granite State has not become “deeply entrenched in our
jurisprudence.” See, e.g., Frett v. State Farm Employee Workers’ Compensation,
309 Ga. 44
, 60 (3) (c) (
844 SE2d 749
) (2020) (in considering age of precedent
and reliance interests, noting that the precedent at issue had not “become
deeply entrenched in our jurisprudence”); Savage v. State, 
297 Ga. 627
, 641 (5)
(b) (
774 SE2d 624
) (2015) (substantial reliance interests are most common in
contract and property cases where parties may have acted in conformance with
existing legal rules in order to conduct transactions). Finally, the rule
articulated in SCV is much more workable than the particularized-injury rule
similar to the injury-in-fact rule that is part of federal standing jurisprudence.
See, e.g., Sierra v. City of Hallandale Beach, 996 F3d 1110, 1115-1117 (11th
Cir. 2021) (Newsom, J., concurring) (noting difficulty and inconsistency in
applying the injury-in-fact requirement). Because none of the stare decisis
factors weigh in favor of retaining Granite State, we overrule it. And we
likewise disapprove any other cases to the extent that they could be read to
impose a particularized injury requirement to challenge the constitutionality
of county actions, legislative or otherwise.
                                       15
 that public duty. In enacting Act 562, the General Assembly set the

electoral district lines for Cobb County. Although the parties dispute

whether Cobb County had the authority to revise those district lines,

it could only do so if the Home Rule Paragraph allowed. Whether

this case is framed as a duty to follow Act 562 or a requirement to

follow the Home Rule Paragraph, in either case, the heart of the case

concerns Cobb County’s duty to follow the law. This is sufficient to

confer standing for the Floams’ challenge to the BOC Amendment.

See SCV, 315 Ga. at 61 (2) (c) (iii) (“Where a public duty is at stake,

a plaintiff’s membership in the community provides the necessary

standing to bring a cause of action to ensure a local government

follows the law.”); see also Williams v. DeKalb County, 
308 Ga. 265
,

272 (3) (b) (i) (
840 SE2d 423
) (2020) (“Williams, as a citizen of

DeKalb County, generally has standing pursuant to OCGA § 9-6-24

to bring a claim seeking to require a public official to perform the

public duties that the General Assembly has conferred upon that

official.”); League of Women Voters of Atlanta-Fulton County v. City

of Atlanta, 
245 Ga. 301
, 303-304 (1) (
264 SE2d 859
) (1980) (“We hold

                                  16
 that the plaintiffs have standing to bring this suit. In this state, it is

established that a citizen and taxpayer of a municipality, without

the necessity for showing any special injury, has standing” to

challenge city council committee appointments as ultra vires actions

by municipal officer).6

      2. The County next argues that even if the Floams have

constitutional standing, they cannot obtain a declaratory judgment

because they do not face the requisite uncertainty about future

decisions they may face. We agree.

      Under the Declaratory Judgment Act, the courts of this State

are authorized “to declare rights and other legal relations of any

interested party petitioning for such declaration” “[i]n cases of


      6  The County also argues that the Floams could not assert taxpayer
standing because redistricting legislation does “not create an illegal debt, cause
illegal expenses to be incurred, result in increased taxes, or misappropriate
funds.” The County cites SCV for this proposition, but SCV did not hold that a
plaintiff’s interest in having their local government follow the law was
dependent on illegal expenditures; indeed it recognized that one’s membership
in the community sometimes is sufficient to confer standing to sue a local
government “even in cases where no tax dollars [are] directly implicated.” SCV,
315 Ga. at 59 (2) (c) (ii). In any case, the County’s argument ignores the fact
that there are expenses incurred by preparing for and conducting elections,
which are predicated upon electoral district lines; if the redistricting is illegal,
taxpayers face a substantial risk of injury as a result.
                                        17
 actual controversy” and “in any civil case in which . . . the ends of

justice [so] require[.]” OCGA § 9-4-2 (a), (b). Although the Act is to

be “liberally construed and administered[,]” the text of the Act also

plainly states that its purpose “is to settle and afford relief from

uncertainty and insecurity with respect to rights, status, and other

legal relations[.]” OCGA § 9-4-1. This language has been part of the

Act since it was first enacted in 1945. See Ga. L. 1945, pp. 137, 139,

§ 13. In one of the first cases interpreting the Act, this Court made

the following observation:

     Doubtless [the Act] was designed to afford security and
     relief against uncertainty and to guide parties to a
     contract or occupying other legal or jural relations as to
     their future conduct with a view to avoid litigation, rather
     than in aid of it, and to settle and fix rights at a time
     before there had been breaches of contracts, violation and
     disregard of rights of others, and thus promote peace,
     quiet, and justice, with the ultimate end always
     constantly in view that one of the chief purposes is to
     declare rights rather than to exclude them.

Shippen v. Folsom, 
200 Ga. 58
, 67 (1) (
35 SE2d 915
) (1945) (citation

omitted). We explained the Act was designed to “give additional

protection to persons who may become involved in an actual


                                 18
 justiciable controversy, in that they differ between themselves as to

what their rights are, and who wish to find them out before taking

some dangerous step which might or might not be authorized.” 
Id.

at 68
 (1).

     Since that initial observation about the Act’s design, this Court

has consistently and repeatedly focused on whether an adjudication

of rights was necessary in order to help or protect the petitioner or

plaintiff. Early on, we said that a petition for declaratory relief will

lie only

     when there be some fact or circumstances which
     necessitate[s] a determination of disputes, not merely for
     the purpose of enforcing accrued rights[,] but in order to
     guide and protect the petitioner from uncertainty and
     insecurity with respect to the propriety of some future act
     or conduct which is properly incident to his alleged rights,
     and which future action without such direction might
     reasonably jeopardize his interest.

Aldridge v. Fed. Land Bank of Columbia, 
203 Ga. 285
, 291 (3) (
46

SE2d 578
) (1948) (emphasis added; citations omitted); see also City

of Atlanta v. Hotels.com, 
285 Ga. 231
, 234-235 (
674 SE2d 898
) (2009)

(“[T]o state a claim for declaratory judgment, a party need only


                                  19
 allege the existence of a justiciable controversy in which future

conduct depends on resolution of uncertain legal relations.”).

     Since that early construction of the Act, our holdings have

repeatedly rejected claims for declaratory judgment when a

declaration of rights would not direct the plaintiff’s future conduct

or involved only a determination of rights that had already accrued.

See, e.g., Clein v. Kaplan, 
201 Ga. 396
, 406 (1) (
40 SE2d 133
) (1946)

(“petition did not state a proper cause for declaratory relief” because

it was “nothing more than a simple creditor’s action, asking the

distribution of a corporation’s assets in equity”); Gibbs v. Forrester,

204 Ga. 545
, 549 (2) (
50 SE2d 318
) (1948) (action to declare that the

plaintiff and the defendant were not husband and wife failed

because the only issue was one of fact known to the parties and the

petitioner was “not asking the court for any light before taking a

step in the dark”); Sumner v. Davis, 
211 Ga. 702
, 703 (2) (
88 SE2d

392
) (1955) (declaratory judgment action should have been

dismissed because the petitioner alleged no facts showing that an

“adjudication of their rights [was] necessary in order to relieve them

                                  20
 from the risk of taking any future undirected action incident to their

rights, which action without direction would jeopardize their

interest”); Ga. Southern & Fl. Railway Co. v. State Highway Dept.,

216 Ga. 812
 (
120 SE2d 122
) (1961) (declaratory judgment did not lie

where the rights of the parties had already accrued and where the

petitioner alleged with certainty and definiteness that it owned the

land being allegedly appropriated by the highway department);

Henderson v. Alverson, 
217 Ga. 541
 (
123 SE2d 721
) (1962)

(declaratory judgment action could not be maintained where

plaintiff failed to allege need for guidance as to his future conduct

but   rather   merely   sought    declaration   that   constitutional

amendment was void); Milton Frank Allen Publications v. Ga. Assn.

of Petroleum Retailers, 
219 Ga. 665
, 670 (1) (a) (
135 SE2d 330
) (1964)

(declaratory action seeking to invalidate a contract was improper

where the petitioner was not uncertain as to any rights under

contract, had already “elected its course” by taking certain actions

to renounce the contract as invalid and unenforceable, “and hence

ha[d] no need for guidance as to what step to take”); Salomon v.

                                 21
 Cent. of Ga. Ry. Co., 
220 Ga. 671
, 672 (1) (
141 SE2d 424
) (1965)

(“[w]hatever rights the plaintiffs may have been denied . . . [or]

acquired” by the stockholders’ meeting, there was no cause of action

for declaratory relief because the plaintiffs’ rights had already

accrued and there were no factual allegations showing that an

adjudication was “necessary in order to relieve the plaintiffs from

the risk of taking any future undirected action incident to their

rights, which action without direction would jeopardize their

interests”); Womble v. Ga. State Bd. of Exam’rs in Optometry, 
221

Ga. 457
, 459-460 (1) (
145 SE2d 485
) (1965) (State Board’s claim that

declaratory judgment was “necessary to relieve the parties ‘from the

risk of taking any future undirected action incident thereto,’” was

conclusory and totally unsupported by any allegations of facts or

circumstances showing any risk or uncertainty); Fourth St. Baptist

Church of Columbus v. Bd. of Registrars, 
253 Ga. 368
, 369 (1) (
320

SE2d 543
) (1984) (claims for declaratory relief were properly

dismissed where plaintiffs “face[d] no uncertainty or insecurity with

respect to their voting rights, nor any risk stemming from

                                 22
 undirected future action”); Morgan v. Guar. Nat. Companies, 
268

Ga. 343
, 345 (
489 SE2d 803
) (1997) (“Because [the petitioner] has

not demonstrated a need for a legal judgment that would control its

future action, in that its defenses to any claim under the policy can

be presented when suit is entered . . . , a declaratory judgment action

was inappropriate.”); Baker v. City of Marietta, 
271 Ga. 210
, 214 (1)

(
518 SE2d 879
) (1999) (trial court erred in ruling on declaratory

judgment action where plaintiff did not assert that it faced a risk of

taking future undirected action and defendant argued that only the

plaintiff sought declaratory relief); Gwinnett County v. Blaney, 
275

Ga. 696
, 703-704 (1) (
572 SE2d 553
) (2002) (petition seeking

declaration that petitioner was entitled to payment of incurred legal

fees under a county indemnification plan was not authorized

because the petitioner sought a determination after legal expenses

had already been incurred and a finding that plan would have

covered the petitioner in the lawsuit would not “portend, much less

determine, any questions of [petitioner’s] coverage” in future legal

actions against him); SJN Props. v. Fulton County Bd. of Assessors,

                                  23
 296 Ga. 793
, 803 (2) (b) (iii) (
770 SE2d 832
) (2015) (declaratory relief

properly denied where claimant failed to show that it faced any

uncertainty or insecurity as to any of its own future conduct, but

rather sought an adjudication that would impact the future conduct

of the defendant); Love v. Fulton County Bd. of Tax Assessors, 
311

Ga. 682
, 695-696 (3) (c) (
859 SE2d 33
) (2021) (appellants’ claim for

declaratory relief was properly dismissed because, even if the

agency’s decision was wrong, the appellants faced no uncertainty as

to an alleged right), disapproved of in part on other grounds by Bray

v. Watkins, 
317 Ga. 703
, 704-705 (
895 SE2d 282
) (2023).

     Applying that framework here, the Floams’ allegations are

insufficient to support declaratory relief. The thrust of the Floams’

“uncertainty” is that they do not know in which district they reside,

but this is not the kind of uncertainty required by our case law. A

request for declaratory relief is a request for “prospective relief—

relief from the threat of wrongful acts and injuries yet to come.”

Lathrop v. Deal, 
301 Ga. 408
, 434 (III) (C) (
801 SE2d 867
) (2017).

The Floams allege several past injuries resulting from the BOC

                                  24
 Amendment, but they have not alleged threatened future injury that

a declaration would prevent them from suffering.

     The Floams alleged in their complaint that they should belong

in District 1 per the General Assembly’s redistricting, they voted in

that district in November 2022, and as a result of the allegedly

illegal BOC Amendment, they are represented by a commissioner

different from the one for whom they voted. The Floams also assert

on appeal that they are uncertain whether their November 2022

votes “functionally counted.”

     It is not clear what the Floams mean by the uncertainty as to

whether their votes “functionally counted.” Regardless, their past

votes have no relation to any uncertainty as to their future conduct.

The Floams frame their right as the right to be represented by the

person for whom they voted. But any violation of such a right

occurred once the BOC Amendment took effect, and the Floams have

not alleged how that past violation creates uncertainty as to their

future conduct. They merely argue on appeal that they cannot

“confidently participate in their government or rely on their

                                 25
 commissioner to represent their interests because they would not

know who their lawful commissioner is for the next [two] years.” No

doubt, everyone has a right to participate in their government,

contact their representative, and even campaign or support a

candidate, but the Floams do not point to any authority for the

proposition that they have a right to do so “confidently.” And nothing

about the BOC Amendment infringes on their right to political

participation. The Floams may be uncertain about which county

commissioner should represent them, but they do not show any

future action they risk taking based on this uncertainty.

     Their uncertainty regarding whether their 2022 votes

“functionally counted” or whether they can participate in their local

government affairs “confidently” is simply insufficient to warrant

declaratory relief. See City of Atlanta v. Atlanta Indep. Sch. Sys.,

307 Ga. 877
, 880 (
838 SE2d 834
) (2020) (“[T]he relief sought by a

plaintiff must have some immediate legal effect on the parties’

conduct, rather than simply burning off an abstract fog of

uncertainty.” (emphasis added)).

                                   26
      With respect to future elections, no declaratory relief lies here

either. The Floams may be uncertain as to whether they lawfully

reside in District 1 or District 3, but this uncertainty, without more,

is insufficient to support a declaration. The Floams must allege that

they are at risk of taking some undirected future action incident to

their rights and that such action might jeopardize their interests.

They have failed to do so.

     The Floams alleged in their complaint that they will vote in

future elections, including those for the BOC, and there is no

allegation that they will not be allowed to vote in such elections. The

Floams allege that they might vote in the “wrong” district, but they

know what district they are assigned under the BOC Amendment;

they have no decision to make about where to vote.

     By seeking a determination on the validity of the BOC

Amendment, the Floams are not asking for guidance with respect to

actions they might take or alleging that they risk taking some

dangerous step that may or may not be authorized. The Floams’

uncertainty, then, does not concern their own future conduct.

                                  27
 Instead, by asking for a declaration that the BOC Amendment was

illegal, the Floams are merely attempting to enforce rights that had

already accrued and attempting to direct the future actions of the

County, which is insufficient to state a claim for declaratory relief.

See Williams, 308 Ga. at 271 (3) (a) (citizen could not pursue

declaratory relief to challenge legality of county ordinances because

he did not “allege or argue that he face[d] any uncertainty or

insecurity as to his own future conduct”); SJN Props., 
296 Ga. at 803


(2) (b) (iii) (claimant failed to show that it faced any uncertainty or

insecurity as to any of its own future conduct and instead sought an

adjudication that would impact the future conduct of the defendant);

Sapp v. ABC Credit & Inv. Co., 
243 Ga. 151
, 159 (5) (
253 SE2d 82
)

(1979) (petitioner did not show that a declaratory judgment was

“necessary to relieve her of the risk of taking some future undirected

action incident to her rights which might jeopardize her interest”

when she had already acted when her petition was filed); see also

Drawdy v. Direct Gen. Ins. Co., 
277 Ga. 107
, 109 (
586 SE2d 228
)

(2003) (“The law is well established that declaratory judgment is not

                                  28
 available where a judgment cannot guide and protect the petitioner

with regard to some future act[.]” (citation and punctuation

omitted)); Venable v. Dallas, 
212 Ga. 595
, 595 (
94 SE2d 416
) (1956)

(“[O]ne walking in full daylight, who knows where he is going and is

confident of the course he is pursuing, has no need either of artificial

light or judicial advice.”); Shippen, 
200 Ga. at 68
 (1) (the Act is

intended to “give additional protection to persons who may . . . wish

to find [their rights] out before taking some dangerous step which

might or might not be authorized”).

      To be clear, the fact that there are two competing maps does

create significant uncertainty for many. 7 But the Floams have not

shown that this uncertainty affects their future conduct. They have

not established that they are insecure about some future action they

plan to take, and they have not shown a need to declare rights upon


      7  In its amicus brief, the Cobb County Board of Elections and
Registration (“BOER”) pointed to its own uncertainty as to whether the BOC
Amendment was valid and asked for some resolution in time for it implement
a redistricting map before the qualifying period that began on March 2, 2024.
Given BOER’s duties in administering elections, that is the kind of uncertainty
that would support a declaratory judgment. But BOER is not a party to this
case, and the Floams cannot use a nonparty’s uncertainty to establish their
own standing.
                                      29
 which their future conduct depends. See Sexual Offender

Registration Rev. Bd. v. Berzett, 
301 Ga. 391
, 393 (
801 SE2d 821
)

(2017) (“The proper scope of declaratory judgment is to adjudge

those rights among parties upon which their future conduct

depends.” (emphasis added; citation and punctuation omitted)).

Instead, the Floams’ claims boil down to an attempt to enforce

accrued rights and guide the future conduct of the defendants or the

BOER. Because the Floams have not shown that they qualify for

declaratory relief, we reverse. We express no view about the correct

resolution of the very serious constitutional issues with the BOC

Amendment. 8

      Judgment reversed. All the Justices concur.




      8 Although we do not reach the issue, we are thankful for the amicus

brief filed by the Attorney General, which addressed the issue of Cobb County’s
authority under the Home Rule Paragraph to pass the BOC Amendment. The
Attorney General took no position on the Floams’ standing.
                                      30
       BETHEL, J., concurring.

      I agree with the opinion of the Court and join it in full. I write

separately to note my concern about the possible effect of further

delay in reaching the merits of the Cobb County Commission’s effort

to redistrict itself, which it seems will inevitably be reached. A

delayed loss by Cobb could give rise to calamitous consequences

inflicting serious expense and practical hardship on its citizens.

Accordingly, I urge Cobb to act with all dispatch in obtaining a final

answer on the legal merits of its chosen path.

      I offer the following illustration not to suggest what will

happen, but only to show what might happen, assuming Cobb’s

merits argument ultimately fails.9 It is clear that Cobb has asserted

a novel application of the constitutional Home Rule powers that has

never been decided by this Court, though the only Georgia court to

reach the merits of Cobb’s argument found it untenable. We


      9 While this hypothetical presumes that Cobb’s argument on the merits

ultimately fails, I do not suggest that will be the likely outcome, and I reiterate
that is not a question we decide here. Given the merits arguments presented
thus far, however, it seems fair to observe that Cobb has a substantial risk of
losing and it seems unwise to ignore that risk.
                                        31
 concluded today that the present action is not the proper vehicle by

which to litigate this issue. But sooner or later, a proper party will

almost certainly bring a proper claim, and a court will decide the

novel issue raised in this case. A review of the record and the current

posture of the Cobb County Commission suggests that an adverse

merits decision for Cobb could feasibly result in at least one current

Commission member to be found to lack residency in his or her

district. And Cobb is currently conducting elections for two seats

under the contested maps. Litigation during and even after those

elections seems inevitable. But litigation takes time, and it is easily

within the realm of possibility that several months could pass before

such litigation is concluded, particularly if Cobb continues to pursue

what could be interpreted as a deliberately leisurely litigation

strategy.

     Indeed, depending on the timeline of any future litigation, it

would not be inconceivable for Cobb to find itself with three vacant

Commission seats and the Commission unable to form a quorum,

leaving its citizens without duly elected representation. To avoid

                                  32
 these possibilities, it seems to me that Cobb has an interest in

reaching a merits-based resolution as quickly as possible. I urge

Cobb to act with all due haste in securing finality.




                                  33
 