 NOTICE: This opinion is subject to modification resulting from motions for reconsideration under Supreme Court
 Rule 27, the Court’s reconsideration, and editorial revisions by the Reporter of Decisions. The version of the
 opinion published in the Advance Sheets for the Georgia Reports, designated as the “Final Copy,” will replace any
 prior version on the Court’s website and docket. A bound volume of the Georgia Reports will contain the final and
 official text of the opinion.

In the Supreme Court of Georgia



                                                   Decided: May 14, 2024


                                S24A0570. GRAY v. STATE


        MCMILLIAN, Justice.

        LaVante Pierre Gray appeals from his convictions for felony

murder and possession of a firearm during the commission of a

felony in connection with the death of James Jones.1 As his sole

enumeration on appeal, Gray asserts that the trial court erred by

refusing to give his request for jury charges supporting the defense

of justification. Even assuming that the trial court erred, we


        1 Jones died on September 1, 2017, and Gray was indicted by a DeKalb

County grand jury on January 4, 2018, on charges of malice murder (Count 1),
felony murder (Count 2), aggravated assault (Count 3), and possession of a
firearm during commission of a felony (Count 4). Gray was tried before a jury
in July 2021 and acquitted of Count 1 but found guilty of Counts 2, 3, and 4.
The trial court sentenced Gray to serve life in prison on Count 2 and to serve
five years in prison on Count 4, to run consecutively to Count 2. Count 3 was
merged into Count 2 for sentencing. Gray filed a motion for new trial on July
30, 2021, which was amended by new counsel on March 15, 2023. The trial
court denied Gray’s motion as amended on June 29, 2023, and Gray timely filed
a notice of appeal. This appeal was docketed to the April 2024 term of this
Court and submitted for a decision on the briefs.
 conclude that any error was harmless, so we affirm.

      1. The evidence at trial showed the following. 2 On September

1, 2017, Jones and Gray were sitting in Gray’s car in Jones’s uncle’s

driveway when Jones realized his wallet was missing. Jones began

searching Gray’s car for his wallet, and at least one witness testified

that Gray assisted in the search. When the wallet could not be

located, Jones asked if Gray had taken the wallet and then

requested that Gray empty his pockets. Gray denied taking the

wallet but refused to empty his pockets. The two men began

discussing the matter, which turned into an argument.

      During the argument, Gray tried to drive away, but Jones got

into the car to stop Gray from leaving. As one witness described it,

Gray “tried to pull off, but [Jones] wouldn’t allow him,” and another

testified that Gray was “trying to back out to leave” when Jones


      2 Because this case considers whether an error in instructing the jury

was harmless, see Division 2 below, “we review the record de novo, and we
weigh the evidence as we would expect reasonable jurors to have done so as
opposed to viewing it all in the light most favorable to the jury’s verdict.” Jones
v. State, 317 Ga. 853, 856-57 (2) (896 SE2d 493) (2023) (citation and
punctuation omitted).


                                        2
 jumped into the car. The two men “tussled” over the car key, which

was in the ignition, when Jones grabbed the key and it broke in half.

Jones retained the electronic key fob that allowed the car to function,

while the remainder of the key remained stuck in the ignition.

     The car’s engine cut off at that point, and the car rolled into the

street. The two men continued to argue. Jones told Gray that he was

not going anywhere until Jones got his wallet. While both men were

still in the car, Gray pulled a gun out of the driver’s side door pocket

and ordered Jones out of the car while demanding his key fob. Jones

exited the vehicle in response but did not give up the key fob. Gray’s

car would not restart after Jones got out of the car because Jones

had the key fob.

     At some point, as the two men kept arguing, the matter turned

into a physical fight in the street, which did not last long and did not

result in any serious injuries, although Gray had a bloody lip and a

black eye. One witness testified that it was a “fair draw,” and

another witness testified that Jones got the better of Gray but he

said no one was really hurt, just Gray’s pride. While the evidence is

                                   3
 somewhat conflicting as to when this fight occurred, most of the

witnesses testified that the fight happened after Jones took the key

fob and was out of the car.

     At some point after the car rolled into the street, Gray, along

with others, including Jones, pushed his vehicle out of the way of

other traffic and positioned the car to allow someone to give his car’s

battery a charge. Jones stood in the street by the passenger side of

Gray’s car, complaining about Gray’s actions in a cell phone call to

Jones’s cousin, and continued arguing with Gray, who stood by the

driver’s side door demanding his key fob.

     Then Gray walked around the front of the car, still demanding

his key fob, and shot Jones approximately six times. Gray continued

shooting Jones even after Jones was on the ground. One witness said

that after the first two shots, Jones appeared to go toward Gray

before he “buckle[d] down to the ground,” and another witness heard

Jones say, as he lay on the ground, “Don’t kill me.” That witness

further testified that Gray continued firing even after he grabbed

his key fob from Jones. After getting the key fob, Gray drove away.

                                  4
 The witnesses to the shooting all testified that Jones was unarmed

and that only Gray had a weapon. The witnesses denied having seen

anyone remove a weapon from Jones after the shooting.

     Jones was taken to the hospital by ambulance, but he was

deceased by the time police arrived there to question him.

Investigators did not locate a weapon at the crime scene, nor did

they ever locate the weapon used to shoot Jones. Jones’s wallet was

found five days later in a shopping center parking lot, where he had

apparently dropped it. Gray was arrested over a month later in

Ohio.

     The medical examiner testified that Jones was shot six times.

One of the wounds was “definitely fatal” and several others were

“very serious but potentially not life-threatening.” He said that the

wounds reflected that Jones may have been shot while standing,

although “an equally likely scenario” was that he was shot several

times after he fell to the ground. The medical examiner did not see

any soot or stippling around any of the wounds, so it was more likely

than not that Jones was shot from more than three feet away. Gray

                                 5
 did not testify at trial.

     2. Gray argues on appeal that the trial court erred in refusing

to give the jury charges he requested on self-defense because slight

evidence was presented that he acted to prevent a forcible felony. At

trial, Gray sought a jury charge under OCGA § 16-3-21 (a), which

provides that

     a person is justified in using force which is intended or
     likely to cause death or great bodily harm only if he or she
     reasonably believes that such force is necessary to
     prevent death or great bodily injury to himself or herself
     or a third person or to prevent the commission of a forcible
     felony.

OCGA § 16-3-21 (a) (emphasis supplied). A “forcible felony” is

defined as “any felony which involves the use or threat of physical

force or violence against any person.” OCGA § 16-1-3 (6).

     “Whether the evidence presented is sufficient to authorize the

giving of a [jury] charge is a question of law,” McClure v. State, 306

Ga. 856, 863 (1) (834 SE2d 96) (2019) (citation and punctuation

omitted), which this Court reviews de novo. See Reese v. State, 314

Ga. 871, 880 (2) (880 SE2d 117) (2022). “[T]o authorize a jury


                                  6
 instruction, there need only be produced at trial slight evidence

supporting the theory of the charge.” State v. Newman, 305 Ga. 792,

796-97 (2) (a) (827 SE2d 678) (2019) (citation and punctuation

omitted). But “[e]ven when we find error in a jury charge, we will

not reverse when the error is harmless.” Jones v. State, 302 Ga. 892,

897 (3) (810 SE2d 140) (2018). See also Hodges v. State, 302 Ga. 564,

567 (3) (807 SE2d 856) (2017). “The test for determining whether a

nonconstitutional instructional error was harmless is whether it is

highly probable that the error did not contribute to the verdict.”

Jones v. State, 310 Ga. 886, 889 (2) (855 SE2d 573) (2021) (citation

and punctuation omitted).

     Prior to trial, Gray submitted written requests for jury charges

on self-defense under OCGA § 16-3-21 (a), false imprisonment, and

robbery. During the charge conference, his counsel asserted that the

charges were authorized because at the time Jones was shot, he was

engaged in committing two “ongoing” forcible felonies—robbery and

false imprisonment—and that Gray shot Jones to stop the felonies

from continuing. As for robbery, defense counsel argued that when

                                 7
 Jones suddenly snatched Gray’s key fob from his immediate

presence, a robbery occurred and continued “as long as the parties

[were] out there, and [Gray was] trying to reclaim the key.” Gray

also asserted that Jones was committing false imprisonment when

Jones told Gray that he could not leave until the wallet was

returned, then “beat” Gray, and stopped him from leaving in his car.

Defense counsel asserted that this evidence showed that Gray was

being detained against his will and that false imprisonment under

these circumstances constituted a forcible felony.

     After hearing argument, the trial court denied Gray’s request

for a jury charge on self-defense based on the forcible felonies of

robbery or false imprisonment. The trial court later denied Gray’s

motion for new trial on this ground.

     Assuming without deciding that the trial court erred in failing

to provide a charge on self-defense to prevent a forcible felony, we

conclude that it is highly probable that any error did not contribute

to the verdict. The evidence against Gray was strong. Multiple

witnesses saw Gray argue with Jones over whether Gray had taken

                                 8
 Jones’s wallet. These witnesses also saw Gray fight with Jones and,

after the passage of some time, shoot Jones outside the car while

demanding the key fob; Gray then took the key fob and drove away.

One witness testified that Gray shot Jones twice, then stood over

Jones saying “give me my key,” while Jones said only, “Don’t kill

me.” This witness said that Gray then grabbed the key fob and shot

Jones “like four or more times.” None of the witnesses saw Jones

with a gun, nor does Gray claim that Jones had a gun.

     Instead, Gray claims that he was justified in shooting Jones to

prevent Jones from committing two forcible felonies—robbery by

sudden snatching and false imprisonment. But the evidence

supporting this defense was weak because any robbery had been

completed at the time of the shooting 3 and the evidence did not

support that deadly force was reasonably necessary to prevent the

alleged false imprisonment. Under Georgia law, “[a] person commits

the offense of robbery when, with intent to commit theft, he takes



     3 Gray does not contend that Jones took the key fob to steal his car, but

rather to prevent Gray him from leaving until the wallet was returned.
                                     9
 property of another from the person or the immediate presence of

another . . . [b]y sudden snatching.” OCGA § 16-8-40 (a) (3). Gray

asserts that Jones committed this crime by snatching his key fob

from his immediate presence, and further argued that the robbery

was continuing “as long as the parties [were] out there and [Gray

was] trying to reclaim the key.” However, this Court has held that

the “taking” element of robbery “is not a continuing transaction

which ends only when the defendant leaves the presence of the

victim. Instead, the taking is complete once control of the property

is transferred involuntarily from the victim to the defendant, even

if only briefly.” Harrington v. State, 300 Ga. 574, 577 (2) (a) (797

SE2d 107) (2017) (citation and punctuation omitted). See also Fox v.

State, 289 Ga. 34, 36 (1) (b) (709 SE2d 202) (2011); James v. State,

232 Ga. 834, 835 (209 SE2d 176) (1974) (“It is not required that the

property taken be permanently appropriated.”).

     Therefore, even assuming, without deciding, that Jones’s act of

snatching the electronic portion of Gray’s key out of the car’s ignition

constituted the felony of robbery by sudden snatching and that such

                                  10
 a crime is a forcible felony, that crime was complete once Jones took

control of the key fob such that a reasonable jury would likely

conclude that the subsequent shooting (which took place after a later

fight between Gray and Jones and after Gray moved and attempted

to re-start his car) was not done to prevent the robbery. See OCGA

§ 16-3-21 (a) (justification if defendant reasonably believes that force

required “to prevent the commission of a forcible felony”). Cf.

Robinson v. State, 298 Ga. 455, 462 (5) (782 SE2d 657) (2016) (jury

charge on self-defense in prevention of forcible felony addressing

shooting death of defendant’s partner in crime by a third party was

appropriate because the attempted robbery of third party was an

ongoing event at the time of the shooting).

     Gray also asserts that Jones was engaged in the ongoing crime

of false imprisonment at the time of the shooting. Under OCGA § 16-

5-41 (a), “[a] person commits the offense of false imprisonment when,

in violation of the personal liberty of another, he arrests, confines,

or detains such person without legal authority.” Gray argues that

the crime of false imprisonment was a continuing forcible felony in

                                  11
 this case because Jones broke and took Gray’s key fob “for the

specific purpose of preventing him from leaving, thereafter

threatened repeatedly that [Gray] was not going anywhere, and

finally engaged in a fistfight with [Gray] causing violent injury.”

Even if false imprisonment under these circumstances could be

considered a forcible felony, 4 Gray was permitted to use deadly force

“only if he . . . reasonably believe[d] that such force [was] necessary

. . . to prevent the commission of a forcible felony.” OCGA § 16-3-21

(a). The evidence that the shooting was necessary was weak. There

was no evidence that Gray was in any physical danger from being

unable to leave the scene in his car, and the evidence supported that



      4 Although false imprisonment is a felony, OCGA § 16-5-41 (b), nothing

in the text of the false imprisonment statute expressly requires the use or
threat of physical force or violence against someone to commit the offense.
Thus, it is not clear that false imprisonment meets the statutory definition of
a forcible felony even if the false imprisonment is accompanied by threats. And
Gray has not pointed us to, nor have we found, any authority where false
imprisonment has been defined, or treated based on the evidence presented, as
a forcible felony under Georgia law. Cf. Patel v. State, 278 Ga. 403, 407-08 (6)
(603 SE2d 237) (2004) (no error in limiting the jury’s consideration of the
justification defense to the situation in which an attack was directed at the
person of defendant and excluding a charge of self-defense based on burglary
as a forcible felony because “burglary is not ipso facto a forcible felony” as it
does not require the use or threat of physical force or violence against any
person).
                                       12
 Gray shot Jones, not because he reasonably believed that the

shooting was necessary to free himself, but because he was angry

that Jones did not give up the key fob. Jones was unarmed, yet Gray

shot him at least six times, and he kept shooting even after Jones

was on the ground. Gray then left the scene and was later found in

another state. See State v. Orr, 305 Ga. 729, 741 (4) (b) (827 SE2d

892) (2019) (“[i]t is universally conceded that the fact of an accused’s

flight, escape from custody, resistance to arrest, concealment,

assumption of a false name, and related conduct [is] admissible as

evidence of consciousness of guilt, and thus of guilt itself.”) (citation

and punctuation omitted).

     In other cases where the evidence of guilt was strong and the

evidence supporting a justification defense was weak, we have

concluded that it was highly probable that the failure to give a jury

instruction on justification did not affect the verdict and thus

constituted harmless error. See Jones, 310 Ga. at 889 (2) (harmless

error to fail to charge on defense of self or third person because

“evidence supporting a charge on defense of self or a third person”

                                   13
 “was meager at best”). See also Reese v. State, 317 Ga. 189, 197 (2)

(891 SE2d 835) (2023) (where evidence supporting self-defense

theory was weak, failure to give justification instruction likely did

not affect the outcome of the trial); Munn v. State, 313 Ga. 716, 723

(3) (873 SE2d 166) (2022) (defendant’s substantial rights were not

affected by not instructing the jury on justification when evidence in

support of the defense was weak). Just so here. Accordingly, Gray is

not entitled to a new trial on this ground.

     Judgment affirmed. All the Justices concur.




                                 14
 