                             FOURTH DIVISION
                              DILLARD, P. J.,
                          BROWN and PADGETT, JJ.

                   NOTICE: Motions for reconsideration must be
                   physically received in our clerk’s office within ten
                   days of the date of decision to be deemed timely filed.
                              https://www.gaappeals.us/rules



                                                                      May 24, 2024




In the Court of Appeals of Georgia
 A24A0159. SCRUDDER, BASS, QUILLIAN, HORLOCK,
     LAZARUS & ADELE, LLP v. BARKEN et al.

      DILLARD, Presiding Judge.

      In this discretionary appeal, Scrudder, Bass, Quillian, Horlock, Lazarus &

Adele, LLP (“the Firm”) challenges the trial court’s order granting attorney fees and

litigation expenses under OCGA § 9-15-14 (b) to Rhonda Barken, the sole heir and

administratrix of the Estate of Daniel James Barken. The Firm argues the trial court

erred by (1) applying a negligence standard to sua sponte impose sanctions under

OCGA § 9-15-14 (b); (2) punishing the Firm when there is a lack of evidence to
   support sanctions; and (3) imposing an excessive penalty not tailored to the sanctioned

  conduct.1 For the following reasons, we reverse.

          In January 2012, Barken’s husband was struck and killed by another vehicle

  while driving his motorcycle in a reversible lane in Atlanta. Barken proceeded to file

  suit against the City of Atlanta and two public works employees: Ann Green, a traffic

  systems operator during the time in question, and Kevin Billups, a traffic supervisor.2

  Barken asserted the defendants failed to inspect and maintain a traffic signal governing

  the flow of traffic in the reversible lane, thus causing or contributing to the accident

  that killed her husband. The City’s law department and an outside law firm jointly

  represented all three defendants.

          During the ensuing discovery process, Barken obtained three service requests

  regarding malfunctioning lane lights at the relevant location. Green ostensibly created



      1
         Oral argument was held in this case on January 9, 2024, and is archived on the
Court’s website. See Court of Appeals of Georgia, Oral Argument, Case No. A24A0159
(Jan. 9, 2024), available at http://vimeo.com/901673974.
      2
        Barken initially sued the at-fault driver, the City, and four placeholder defendants.
After the at-fault driver was discharged in bankruptcy, Barken dismissed the suit and filed
a renewal action against the City, 21 City employees, and five John Doe defendants.
Following the trial court’s order on the parties’ joint motion to dismiss, only the City,
Green, and Billups remained.
                                             2
   the service requests on September 14, September 15, and December 2, 2011—only

  months before the fatal collision. As a result, Green was later asked about these

  specific service requests—and service requests in general—in a 2017 deposition.3

          According to Green, a service request is an inspection notation or an initiation

  of service when a constituent calls the City with a concern, at which point a technician

  goes out to inspect the problem. If work is required (e.g., a signal bulb needs to be

  changed), a work order is then created; and when the work is complete, both the work

  order and service request are closed.

          As part of her job duties at the time, Green created service requests u